>> After stage four cancer
took Anita Moorjani down to 80
pounds, she slipped into a coma
and was given days to live.
And the only reason
Anita is here
today is because of her
choice to live her life
in a radically loving way.
Anita first wrote about her
transformational experience
in a blog and that's where
the late and amazing Wayne
Dyer found her story.
And encouraged her to write her
first book, "Dying to Be Me."
Her latest book is called
"Sensitive is the New Strong."
And it gives us tools
to so many of us
who are intuitive
beings to be able to be
strong in a fear based world.
I'm so glad you're here.
Thank you.
>> Thank you for
inviting me, Lisa.
>> I'm so glad you're here
really like in general.
>> Yes, I am so happy to
be here on this planet.
>> Yes, yeah, tell me a little
bit about the story of when you
had experienced the epiphany
in the hospital that you were
living a according to
your cultural beliefs.
What was that?
>> So, well, the thing is--
so I was dying.
I had end stage cancer.
And I'd gone into a coma.
And the doctors had told
my family that this was it.
I wasn't coming back.
And I had tumors.
I had lymphoma.
Tumors-- some of them
the size of golf balls
all around my neck
and my breasts,
under my arms, and all
the way to my abdomen.
And my lungs were
filled with fluid.
And I weighed 85 pounds or 80
pounds, actually, at that time.
I was connected to an oxygen
tank, heart rate machine--
I was just-- had
all these tubes.
And I was gone.
I was like pretty much gone.
And the doctors told my
family that this was it.
But unbeknownst to all of
them I was actually aware
of everything that was
happening around my body.
It was like I was no
longer in my physical body.
I could even see my body lying
there on the hospital bed.
And the thing is I felt amazing.
I felt powerful.
I felt free.
And all the pain and
discomfort from all these years
of the cancer--
that was all gone.
And the fear was gone.
Because I had a fear of
cancer, a fear of death,
and a fear of the
treatment for cancer.
>> Those were your
biggest fears?
>> Those were my biggest fears.
And here I was--
I was aware I was dying.
And it was all gone.
The fears were gone.
So it just felt
really, really amazing.
>> Isn't it incredible how we
create our greatest fear if we
focus on them?
And you had-- you had
focus a lot on those
in a different way.
You did things different, right?
>> Oh, I did things
very different.
So I grew up living
a fear-based life.
And I think that a lot of
people live a fear-based life
even if they don't realize it.
Because that's
how it was for me.
I didn't realize I was
living a fear-based life.
It's kind of like when an
air conditioner goes off,
and you notice the silence.
And you never knew it was
on in the first place.
You couldn't hear it.
And only when it goes off,
you realized that it was on.
It's the same thing.
When the fear was gone, when
I was in that near-death space
or in that death space,
and the fear was gone
did I realize that I had
been living my whole life
from a place of fear.
>> So interesting, we can
see it in other people.
We can say, oh,
they're fear based
or that's the worst case
scenario or something.
But we can not see
it in ourselves.
>> Yeah, because it's very--
I guess, it's very--
it's subtle or it's pervasive.
It's part of our culture.
For example, I grew up
in the Hindu culture.
My parents are Indian.
And I was-- a big
pressure on me as I
was growing up is that
you have to get married,
and you have to have
an arranged marriage.
And in my culture, women
are not as valued as men.
In fact, a woman's
worth is measured
by how good they
are at housework
or how good they
are at serving men
or how valuable they are
to the men in their lives.
That's how your you're measured.
That's how you're
more worthy if you're
more valuable to the
men in your life.
So if you get older and
you're still single,
your value goes down.
A woman's more valuable
if she's married.
And the more important
the man she's married to,
the more important she is.
>> But that never made
sense to you, did it?
>> No, it didn't.
>> Even though you were
raised in that environment,
it just didn't work
for you, did it?
>> It didn't because what I
couldn't understand is how come
I'm being told that I can't
have higher education because it
will make me too smart and
less desirable for marriage.
And I have to learn to be a
subservient housewife and so
on.
But how come deep down
I have this yearning
to travel the world and
to earn my own money
and to be independent.
And there was kind
of discrepancy.
It's like if this yearning is
coming from inside me, surely,
I was made this way.
And I remember
getting into trouble
one time when we were at a
temple, where men and women had
to be separated.
But women had this tiny section,
and they were really cramped.
And men were sprawled
out in this big section.
And I just kind--
I was really young.
I said, oh, I want to go
hang in the bigger space.
And my parents said,
you can't do that.
You're a girl.
You have to go there.
And I said, well,
then how can this
be called a place of
God, a place of worship
if there's inequality.
I don't believe that God
made the two genders unequal.
And I actually got in big
trouble for saying that.
I was told to go and apologize
in front of the deities
for being so disrespectful.
>> By your parents?
>> By my parents--
and yet, in my head,
it was like, no,
but the God I believe
in wouldn't do that.
>> So there was no influence
around you that was showing you
another way?
>> Not-- well, to an extent,
I grew up in a multicultural
society.
So from that perspective,
a lot of things
didn't make sense to me.
I never fit in because
I was going to school
in Hong Kong, which
is predominantly
a Chinese society.
But I was in a British--
an international school.
And in the school, there
were mostly British kids.
And my parents were
Indian, Hindus,
and I was expected to go
to the temple every week.
So I felt I didn't fit anywhere.
>> I bet you saw so many
different perspectives.
>> Yes, and I had to make
sense of all these different
perspectives.
>> And so it makes sense that
you would have questioned
reality at the time.
>> Yes, so I was
questioning reality a lot.
But in my culture, I was being
judged as being rebellious.
But it genuinely--
>> Not curious, rebellious.
>> Not curious.
>> And so it was
not a good thing.
>> It was not a good thing.
>> So when you had
this death experience,
you didn't go to the tunnel or
see the light or anything like
that, right?
>> No, it was very different.
And I was told by people who
study near-death experiences
that it was probably because
it wasn't a sudden death.
It wasn't a car crash
or a heart attack
and that's probably
why I didn't go
like swooshing out through the
tunnel and towards the light.
Because it was a
gradual death, it
was like I had just slowly
come out of my body.
But what was really
interesting--
I just want to add here--
when I was growing up,
my dad and I clashed
a lot because he
thought I was too rebellious.
And, also, because I
ended up eventually
agreeing to an
arranged marriage.
And then three days before,
running away from it,
which brought a lot
of shame to my family,
to my then fiance's family.
So I was ostracized
from the community.
And my parents were told
that no man from my culture
would ever marry me
after what I'd done.
So I brought all
this shame to them.
>> Did you move
away at that time?
>> So I didn't
physically move away.
So I still had all
these people around me.
I had to deal with
all this shame.
And I do believe
that a lot of this
fear of not being good enough--
and this is what I
mean by all the fears--
fear of displeasing people,
fear of trying to meet
other people's expectations.
All of this contributes
to draining you.
It drains your energy.
And this is what eventually
contributed to my illness.
And then my best friend, I
watched her go through cancer.
I felt guilt that I was
healthy, and she was--
she had cancer.
So it's this fear again
of not being good enough
for my friend, feeling
guilty if something good is
happening with me.
And then I started to develop
a fear of getting cancer.
And so I started to eat
really healthy, interestingly,
but out of a fear of disease not
from a place of loving my life
and wanting to live life--
live a long and healthy life.
It was out of fear of illness
that I would eat organic,
and I would make my
own wheatgrass shots,
and I would source
all these supplements.
But all of it out of a
fear of getting cancer.
And then I got
diagnosed with cancer.
>> Now, when you were in
that death experience,
you wrote about
seeing your father.
>> Yes.
>> And having him forgive you.
love-- I mean, this is
called love, isn't it?
>> Yes, so what happened is
when I was on the other side.
And I saw my dad.
And I thought that I would
experience a lot of judgment,
having lived this
lifetime of thinking
that I had got everything wrong,
that I was rebellious, that I'd
run away from a marriage.
And I'd screwed up so much.
And I put my parents to shame.
And so here I was
face-to-face with my dad.
And all I experienced from him
was pure, unconditional love.
That was all that was
emanating from him.
It was like he understood me.
He understood everything.
It was like I was transparent.
I didn't even have
to use language.
We were communicating
just purely energetically.
And so there was no room
for miscommunication.
And it was like I
was transparent.
And that's when I realized
that when we crossover,
we don't just leave
behind our bodies.
We also leave behind our
gender, our culture, our beliefs
and all these layers that we
accumulate over this lifetime.
>> Was your father
crossed over at that time?
>> Yes, he was.
My father had died
10 years prior.
>> Wow.
>> And so there he had been
trying to arrange a marriage
for me.
But at the time he died,
I wasn't even married yet.
>> And so it was
unresolved in you.
There's another layer of guilt.
>> There was another layer
of guilt that I'd never gone
through a marriage.
And it was my father's
dream to see me married.
>> So this transformed you so
much when you came back in, how
did the tumors shrink and the
cancer go away in three weeks?
>> The cancer just disappeared.
And I just want to say
that before I came back
into my body--
and I was given the choice--
but my dad said,
it's not your time.
And you must go back in
live your life fearlessly.
In that moment, I actually
understood that what he meant
was go back and be
yourself fearlessly.
It was like he was gifting
me something that he
felt he had taken away from me.
Because I felt that
he felt responsible
for me growing up so fearfully.
And so he was gifting me
a second lease of life.
And his message was go back
and live your life fearlessly.
And so when I came back, I
knew that the cancer wasn't
going to heal, and
that it was going
to heal very, very quickly.
Because I now understood that
it was an accumulation of all
these years of beating myself
up and judging myself and living
in fear.
And it was just an
accumulation of all this
over all these years
that had drained me
to the point of getting cancer.
>> Well, you wrote about
it in "Dying to be Me."
And I wouldn't
know-- when you have
other women from your
culture, what did they respond
when you wrote this book?
>> They responded
really favorably.
And I didn't expect that.
I really didn't expect that.
And when the publishers
told me that they were
going to also publish in India.
And they said Hay
House India was
going to publish and
promote it in India,
I was actually a
little bit concerned.
I thought, oh,
Indian people are not
going to want to hear what
I've written in the book.
>> You're living
your life fearlessly.
>> But I thought, OK, I'm living
my life fearlessly-- exactly.
I have to just go with the flow.
And you won't believe it,
the book hit number one
>> In India?
>> In India.
>> Wow.
>> I actually get
recognized on the streets.
I could not believe.
>> That says something.
>> Yes, and that surprised
me very pleasantly in a very
pleasant way.
It was like the women
were ready to hear it.
They were so open.
They have been amazing.
The Indian culture,
the Indian women--
they've been amazing.
>> What have they said?
>> They have said I was really
brave, not just to do that,
but they also feel I'm
brave to share that,
to share that I did that and
to share with other women that
they have to be themselves.
Because some of the
things I say in the book
was how I was
measured by my ability
to do housework and things like
that, which women relate to,
especially in Asian cultures.
>> And you wrote about it.
>> And I wrote about it,
and I speak about it.
And so they actually--
it gives them permission
to speak about it or it gives
them permission to stand up
and say, look, I'm not going
to be measured this way.
>> And those that want to hold
on to the tradition, it's fine.
>> Yes.
>> And those that
see a different way,
you kind of gave them a little
bit of permission to speak
about it.
>> Yes, and, again, there's
nothing wrong with being
a homemaker, nothing at all.
And that's not what I'm saying.
But I think everybody should be
free to do what comes naturally
to them.
>> And your message is
more about the self-love.
>> Yes, exactly.
You have to love yourself
enough to give yourself
permission to be who you are.
You see one of the problems is
when you don't love yourself,
you assume that if you don't
toe the line, if you don't
do what society
expects you to do,
you assume it's going to
make you a bad person.
But when you love yourself,
you realize, no, what
I have to offer is
actually something better
than what they're
asking me to do.
And their expectation is
actually suppressing me,
but I want to show
them who I really am.
That's what self-love is.
>> So in your experience, what
do you think made you such
a people pleaser?
>> Well, when I was growing
up, my parents were Indian as I
mentioned.
And I grew up in Hong Kong,
which is predominantly
a Chinese society.
Well, my parents were
trying to hold on
to our Hindu cultural values,
and I went to a school
with British kids.
And what I felt was that
I didn't belong anywhere.
I was like a cultural hybrid.
These British kids all
were together in a clique.
The Chinese kids
in my neighborhood
were together in a clique.
And when I would go
with the Indian kids,
I didn't even feel very Indian.
Because I was so exposed to
the British kids at school
that I was westernized.
I was a westernized
version of an Indian kid.
Because I didn't want to do the
whole arranged marriage thing.
And I was very different.
So I felt I didn't
belong anywhere.
And, yet, I had this
longing that I really
wanted to belong somewhere.
So I found myself
bending over backwards
with every cultural
group that I would become
who they wanted me to be.
So I was literally
a people pleaser.
I would become who
they wanted me to be so
that I could belong to a clique,
so that I could be accepted.
And for me that was the biggest
thing-- wanting to belong.
>> What about the opposite-- if
someone doesn't feel like they
belong, and they become a bully.
And they ostracized themselves.
>> Well, usually, I think even
bullies it comes from a place
of not belonging and
wanting to belong.
It's like a desire
of wanting to belong.
I was bullied because
I didn't belong.
I was the outsider.
I was the brown face amongst
a whole bunch of white faces.
So I was the one picked on.
And that used to
really pained me
that I didn't feel
I belonged anywhere.
But when I had the
near-death experience,
I understood why I
was the way I was.
I understood why that I
had spent this lifetime
of being this unique person.
Because it turned out
that that was my gift.
Because today I am so glad
that I don't belong anywhere
because it feels like
I belong everywhere.
>> And you have so many
different perspectives to share
and understanding
and compassion.
So belonging turned
to your greatest gift.
>> Yes and, in fact, not
actually ending up belonging
anywhere turned into my greatest
gift because I actually am able
to see how all the cultures
offer a different facet of what
makes up this universe.
I feel I belong to all of them.
>> That's beautiful.
So for people who have not
had this experience of cancer
and going through
all that you did,
how do you teach them to
have that level of self love
without going through
such an awakening?
>> So there are actually
many things I tell people.
A lot of people believe
that self love means being
egotistical or narcissistic.
In fact, it's the opposite.
People who are egotistical
and narcissistic
don't love themselves.
And so they're overcompensating.
When someone truly
loves themselves
they're very comfortable
even sitting back in a corner
and not being heard because
you know who you are,
you know what you stand for.
You're very happy even to
let other people shine.
>> And so the way
that I tell people--
or the way that I suggest to
people to ask yourself whether
you love yourself or not.
There's a couple of things.
One is how good are
you at receiving.
And this is a telltale sign.
People who don't love
themselves, who are--
people who are particularly
sensitive and empathetic
and don't love
themselves, they're
very, very good at giving.
Because they become
people pleasers.
>> Over giving.
>> So that means if
you're sensitive.
And if you are not able
to express that self love,
you over give, over give so
that you can be accepted.
>> Yes, they tend to over give
so that they can be accepted.
So the people who actually
have the hardest time loving
themselves are people
who are super sensitive
and who are empaths, who
are really empathetic.
They have the hardest
time loving themselves.
So you need for everyone
around you to be happy in order
for you to feel good because
you sense everybody's feelings.
And this is very
common with empaths.
>> Now, has this
shown up in your life?
How did it show up in your life?
>> So as I was growing
up, I could never say no.
I had a really hard
time saying no,
which is why even though
I knew that I wouldn't
survive an arranged marriage.
I still said yes.
I went through with
getting engaged.
And only at the last
minute, I ran away because--
>> You couldn't do.
>> --I couldn't do it.
But I had a really
hard time saying no.
I was always conflict avoidance.
And so this always
showed up in my life.
Now, during my
near-death experience,
that's when I understood that
we are supposed to be ourselves.
And that was the key for me.
What healed me was realizing
that we, every single one
of us, are an expression
of God or an expression
of the universe, whatever
we want to call it.
We are an expression
of this universe.
And when you are
trying to bend over
backwards to accommodate
everyone else, everything else
you are suppressing
who you really are.
You're preventing who you
really are from coming through.
So, in other words,
what you're doing is
you're are preventing God from
expressing itself through you.
>> Yes, which is why we're such
people pleasers or need to have
other people like us so much
because that ability to receive
or receive love or
receive a compliment even,
it doesn't match to anything
that's going on here,
which would be the God presence.
>> It's the God presence
or the universal presence.
What I realized, also, when
I was in the other realm
is that we are all connected.
>> Yes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> I realized that too.
>> Every single one.
Yes, so we're all connected.
So if you imagine that all
of us are connected as if--
let's just imagine
there's an invisible web.
And each of us are
points on this web,
and we're all connected.
So we're all part of one
whole, and this whole is God.
We're all facets of God.
We're all expressions of God.
Now, if you are going to live
from this space of fear--
fear of displeasing people,
beating yourself up, judgment--
and you're connected
to everyone else,
then that's what you're
bringing to the whole.
That's what you're
bringing to everyone else.
But if you can live from this
space of love and expression
and creativity and allowing God
to express itself through you,
then you are fulfilling
the purpose of why
you're here and expressing.
Because you are actually
contributing to the whole.
You're adding to the
whole experience.
See the thing is-- and because
we have denied that we are six
sensory beings, it means we've
also denied that we're all
connected--
that what I do affects you;
what you do affects me.
And because we've denied that,
we see each other as separate.
We see each other as
competition, enemies,
somebody to compete against.
And because of that, when
we have a brilliant mind,
instead of using it towards
a better world for all.
We use it towards how to
eliminate the competition.
We use it towards ammunition,
towards nuclear weapons--
.
>> Divisive
>> Divisive-- we use it for
divisive means because we have
not, since we were born,
embraced that we are six
sensory beings who
are all connected.
But you look at babies,
you look at your pets--
if you have a pet dog,
if you have children--
from the time they're born, they
know they're connected to you.
They know when you
walk into a room.
Your pet, your pet knows
if something's wrong.
>> Is that what you mean
by six sensory being?
>> That's what I mean
about we're all connected.
We're all connected.
>> What do you mean by
a six sensory being?
>> So a six sensory being--
in fact, we all
have a sixth sense--
is more than intuition.
Because we've denied it, we have
very limited language for it.
So if you lived your whole
life with your eyes closed
and if your whole community,
your the whole paradigm
lived that way, there would
be no words for colors,
for example.
There would be no words for
sky, for all kinds of things.
Think of all the words
that wouldn't exist.
Because for those words
to exist, you need to see.
You need vision.
So in the same way, if you
had embraced your intuition
from birth, if we were born
and it was part of our culture
that we are six
sensory beings, we
would have developed a
language for every nuance
of our intuition.
And there is so much there is.
Like, some people can be full on
clairvoyant or a clairaudient.
Or some people can
just have intuition
and know that something is wrong
to a member of their family.
Other people can see
the deceased amongst us.
They can see-- children,
they can see when
their grandparents--
deceased grandparents
are visiting.
>> It's not just necessarily the
best selling authors that can
see it.
It's all of us.
>> It's all of us.
That's what I'm trying to say.
It's normal.
And the reason why
people who write about it
become best selling authors is
because people recognize it.
They're like, oh
my God, that person
is so brave for talking about.
>> That's me.
>> That's me-- when
people read my book,
I had hundreds of thousands of
people writing to me saying you
told my story.
That's what I mean.
And that's why I
say I'm not special.
I am telling your story
and everybody else's story.
>> And it's making so
much sense to people.
So you're saying that
really six sensory beings
and intuitive beings that
can either see, hear, feel
and just a super--
>> And just know
what's going on--
>> --is the normal?
>> Is the normal.
But we have suppressed
it, denied it,
and we're scared of it.
And we've shut it down.
>> Yes, let's take a
look here at a video,
we're Anita's teaching us
how, steps on how to follow
our intuition.
Take a look.
>> So number one is to believe
it and to know it and to be
aware of it.
Number two is I would
ask you to then start
monitoring your energy levels.
Ask yourself, how do I feel
in different situations?
So when you are
with certain people,
how do I feel when I'm there
with this group of people?
How do I feel when I go to this
restaurant or this person's
home?
You don't have to tell
people what you feel.
Because this is not
about judging anybody.
People don't realize--
I mean, there can be
very, very good people
that can drain your energy.
And it could purely be because
you're an energy mismatch not
because they're bad or they're
vampires or anything like that.
Because it could be
your own family members.
So be aware of where your
energy is being drained.
And then start to honor it--
write it down, keep a journal.
Actually, keep track
of what energizes you
and what depletes your energy.
And so what we're
going to talk about
in a moment is if you
need to be with people
or go to places that
deplete your energy,
we will talk in a moment about
how to increase your energy,
how to charge your batteries
so that you can handle dealing
with being in those places.
Because, again, as I said,
it could be your own family
members.
It could be a sick loved
one who's in the hospital
and you hate hospitals-- maybe
hospitals deplete your energy.
It could be yourself,
you could be sick.
And you could be needing
to go to the hospital.
And every time you
go to the hospital,
it depletes your energy.
See that's what
happened to me when
I was going through my illness.
Going to the hospital
depleted my energy--
I hated hospitals.
I found them very fearful.
Now, here's the thing.
It's really important
to know that if you're
going through an illness,
you want to be in a state
where your energy
is being charged,
where your energy is
uplifted because that alone
helps you with healing.
The more energy you have coming
into you or the more energy
you're feeling because
of your environment,
the faster you heal.
And so this is something I
never got about hospitals.
The very place where we need
the energy in order to heal
are the places that
are depleting us.
And it's not anybody's
fault. It's the system.
I actually really feel
for doctors and nurses--
doctors, nurses, healers.
It's very important that
you uplift your energy,
because your energy
affects the patient's.
If you want to be a really
effective doctor and healer
and nurse, nurses are angels
who give and give of themselves.
But if you're
depleted and drained,
it doesn't help the patient.
The patient feels it.
They feel you're drained energy.
And it makes them feel
drained as well, especially
if they're super sensitive.
They may be intuitive
and sensitive,
and they may not
even realize it.
They may not realize what's
depleting their energy.
This is why I always say it's
so important for everybody
to take care of themselves
first and to increase
their energy first.
Because then your very
presence uplifts other people.
If you're a doctor
or nurse or healer,
half your work is done for
you if your energy levels are
high because you're
very presence is already
helping the patient
or the person
with the health challenge.
It's already helping them
in their healing journey.
So anyway as I said,
number two was monitor
your energy, whoever you are.
Whether you are someone going
through a health challenge,
whether you are a
healer, whether you
are a doctor, whether
you are a nurse,
monitor your energy
levels and try
and keep them at high levels
by doing the things that
raise your energy.
>> I love this because it's
helping you monitor your energy
levels.
That's what you're saying is
extra sensory beings, or us--
six sensory beings--
tend to get blown
out when there's
too much stimulus and too much
out of our control, I guess.
So you're saying relax, monitor
your energy levels, right?
>> Yes, just relax,
monitor your energy levels,
and don't judge yourself when
you are feeling the like say,
I guess, fear-based energies or
stress when we're feeling it.
Don't judge yourself
but just go and do
something that relaxes you
and recharges your batteries.
>> Well and think
about us as sensitive,
and we live in this
full expressive place
of vulnerability and love.
And something hurts us--
someone does
something that hurts
us or we get rejected or fired
or something like that happens.
Someone does something
that's unethical.
Then we close back down
and say, oh, see that's it.
I'm not doing that again.
I'm not going to be vulnerable
and be in that self-love place
again.
How do you deal with that?
Because I know you've
had your ups and downs
as well even after your NDE.
So how do you take
this self love
and really apply it to
the ups and downs of life?
>> So it isn't always easy
but, at the same time,
I know that there's
a bigger picture.
It's knowing that there's a
bigger picture that helps me
through this whole thing.
>> OK.
>> I know that I'm
here for a reason,
and I'm here for a purpose.
I've had a few things
that have hurt me
and knocked me back
in the last few years.
After such an experience,
it doesn't mean
that everything's hunky-dory.
And life is plain sailing.
I've gone through
my frustrations.
But the only thing that--
the main thing
that keeps me going
is that I know there's
a bigger picture.
But here's how I
actually deal with it.
I don't try to solve
my problems anymore.
I observe them, and that's
the biggest shift for me.
I used to think that I had to
go in and resolve everything
and solve the problems.
And that would make
me really stressed out
and tired and drained.
I used to think that every
problem that happened to me
or happened on my
path was my problem.
And I had to fix it.
I don't anymore.
I just wait and
observe and then wait
for the experience,
the lesson to come.
I don't go and
search for the lesson
because that's the other thing
that people do to drain--
>> The reason-- yes.
>> They kind of go,
what's the reason for it?
I got to find it.
And they put pressure
on themselves.
And if they're not finding
the lesson or the reason,
they're beating themselves up.
Because they're like
I've done all this work,
and I've done all this cleansing
and reading and workshops.
Why am I not getting it?
I don't do any of that.
Literally, I am a
passenger to my problems.
>> That's fantastic.
>> It sounds weird.
>> It's great.
That's got to be a lot easier.
>> It's a lot easier,
and that's what's change.
>> So you create at a higher
level because of that.
Because you don't spend so much
of your energy and resources.
>> You do create
at a higher level.
And the thing is people will say
to you when you do it this way,
they'll say, oh my gosh, I want
the magical powers you have.
But actually everybody
has the ability.
It's not something special that
I have and other people don't.
But so I'll share
with you a funny story
is that when I first came
back from the other side
from my near-death experience.
And I realized this.
I realized that my
job was just to be me
and to love myself and even
love myself through my problems,
but don't fall into
the trap of thinking
that I have to be someone
else, do something else
and bend over backwards
to try and fix it.
Because every time you
do that, you end up
being something else.
You end up taking
on a job or a path
or a course that's
not who you are,
thinking I'm fixing the problem.
So I started talking about this
and saying that no you just
gotta sit back and observe and--
and people actually told
me I was delusional.
>> Really?
>> And I was not living
in the real world.
And you can't do it that way.
That's not how life works.
>> It seems really
enlightened to me.
>> Yes, so that's what
they said 10 years ago.
And these are people I knew.
I'm talking about
people in my community.
Because I had this NDE.
And I tried to integrate
back into my community.
I realized I couldn't because
they thought I was delusional
because I had changed.
And I was no longer engaged
in problems and dramas, even
my own.
I was no longer
interested in going back
to a job for the sake of earning
money to earn a living just
to live life.
None of that
interested me anymore.
So I had to leave my community
and move to a new place
a new town where
nobody knew me so I
could discover who I now am.
So move forward 10
years and my life
has unfolded the way it has.
And here's what
happens, when you
don't engage in the problem--
I went through periods where
we struggled with finances
because we--
because I wasn't taking
on a job I hated.
And I wasn't falling
into the fear
of working for the sake
of not having money.
And what happens is when you're
in that passenger position
like a new portal opens up.
In my case, Wayne Dyer
discovered my story.
Something you never expect.
It's like another
dimension just opens up.
And so things started to unfold.
Now, those same people
from all those years
ago who said I was delusional
who are still stuck in jobs
they hate, they come to me.
And they say, how do
you do what you do?
Oh my god, we want your life.
And I say, I guess, you
just got to be delusional.
>> Well, it is amazing the
miraculous way that everything
unfolded.
You wrote about your story
on a blog, on an NDE website.
And somehow, it
got to Wayne Dyer.
And he picked up the--
he just said this
has to be made into a book.
>> When I was struggling at
one point before Wayne Dyer got
my story.
I was not-- I didn't know how we
were going to support ourselves
financially because
I wanted to find
some work that was conscious
work that also supported me.
But I realized we live in a
paradigm that doesn't always
financially support
conscious work.
>> You lived in that paradigm.
>> We lived in that
paradigm-- no longer.
Yes, I lived in that
world, that community that
doesn't support conscious work.
So I literally spoke
to the heavens.
And I said you set me back for
a reason, show me that reason.
Otherwise, take me
back over there--
and it's that.
>> I have that
same conversation.
I do.
>> Because that was the
life that gave me cancer.
>> Yes, and that faith,
living in that faith,
it's counterintuitive
to everything else--
the fear-based world
and the top down
control mentality and anything.
It's counterintuitive
to all of that, but--
>> It is totally.
>> Yes, that guide
or whatever guidance,
you constantly say I came back--
what am I going to do?
What's the next step?
>> Yes, So I'm constantly
asking for guidance.
And I'm constantly
receiving guidance.
And so the next step
for me, I actually
share my guidance with people.
But I tell people that
we all have access to it.
My own next step is in talking
to people about tapping
into their own intuition.
See the thing is previously, I
would talk about how we were--
how everything we've been taught
is counter to what we actually
need to know to live
happy, productive lives,
happy healthy, productive lives.
And that's what I wrote about
in my second book, "What
if This is Heaven."
It's about how everything
is the opposite.
So, now, where I
want to take people
is I want people to look
at things like illnesses
differently.
I want them to look at
problems differently,
health challenges differently.
I would love for
doctors and hospitals
to really get on board because.
When I was going
through my own illness,
I was so scared of hospitals.
I was so fearful of hospitals.
When I was on the other side,
when I was in that realm,
I realized that the biggest
contributor to my illness
was fear.
So it's a little bit
ironical that the place where
I would go to for healing
was the place that
scared me the most.
>> It's true, hospitals
do need to transform that,
where their medicine is
brilliant, and it's great.
But you also have
to play a part in it
as the patient to contribute
to seeing yourself whole again
and contribute to
the healing process.
It cannot just be
the outside in.
And that's not spoken
about in hospitals
because they're into acute
care and evidence and numbers.
And they want to do what's
proven and what's right.
I understand that.
But you as the
patient, absolutely,
have the other piece
of the equation.
I believe that.
Can we touch again on
"What if This is Heaven?"
>> Sure.
>> So what I got from that
book is what if we are living
in a place of heaven?
What if everything
that we're creating
is a divine experience,
even the fear,
even that all of the
chaos in the world?
Is that what you meant by that?
>> Yes, in a way--
yes and no, actually.
What I wanted to
convey in that book
is that we could be living
in heaven if we knew, if only
we knew that we are actually
creating the opposite.
Originally, when I wrote
the book, the title I had
was "What if This is Heaven?"
And the subtitle was, "And
if it is, Then Why Does it
Feel like Hell?"
But a few people suggested
that I should change the title
and not use the word
hell in the title.
But that actually depicts what
I was trying to say is that
why does it sometimes
not feel like heaven.
Because in actuality,
we came here--
our intention was to come here
and have a positive experience.
How did we get it so wrong?
That's really what I try
to explore in this book.
How did we get it so wrong?
And one of the
things I talk about
is that we got it so wrong
because we actually knew--
we came here with life's
calling, with the longing,
with an intention.
And I see the word calling
as our future calling us.
So we come here knowing what it
is we want to do in the world
and how we want to make
the world a better place.
We come here with the intention
of leaving the world a better
place.
But somehow all this gets
conditioned out of us.
>> We forget.
>> Somehow.
>> And I believe we forget
because our paradigm,
the way we've structured it--
our education system,
our medical system.
>> It kicks us out.
and it conditions us using fear
because competition starts very
early when we're very little.
>> In sports and so forth.
>> Sports can be wonderful if
you look at it for the right
reasons.
Look at all of the ways that
your life is taking you back
to fear.
>> Yes, it's interesting you
say that because people actually
say to me that--
because I'm telling
people, I don't
want you to go through
what I went through.
This is why I share
this with you.
And they say to me so if you
knew then what you know now,
would you not have had cancer?
And I say, yeah, I truly believe
if I knew then what I know now,
I definitely would
not have had cancer.
However, I'm very happy with
the way things turned out.
I'm really glad I went
through what I went through
because I wouldn't be
doing what I do today,
I wouldn't have this life that
I have right now if I didn't
go through what I went through.
>> Many of us are in
that same exact boat.
And as you've been
speaking over the years,
I've noticed that the audience
is doing the same thing.
They've been through
their trials.
And now they're
starting to become
the teachers, become
the practitioners,
which is why it's so amazing.
There's this movement,
this momentum
of all of these
incredible teachers,
practitioners, healers getting
into the mainstream even more
and saying this is
what's possible.
This is what's possible.
And it is truly,
I believe, tipping
the scales, which is why a
network like this is possible.
And what you're doing with
the best selling books
and why you're on CNN and all
of these different networks
talking about this--
it's acceptable now to
make this difference.
>> It makes me so happy that
it's becoming mainstream.
>> Yes, and we've worked hard.
>> You have worked hard, and
you're contributing to this
becoming mainstream.
I love that.
>> Yes, well, I love that you
address the topic of being
a sensitive intuitive and
sensitive being the new strong
and kind of redefining it.
Because looking back,
you were overacting
as a sensitive
person that didn't
know how to manage that pure
love that you really truly are.
>> When somebody is sensitive,
their emotions are exaggerated
in their own world,
in their own mind.
And everything seems
bigger than it is.
And I think sensitive people
need to be aware of that.
That it's not as bad
as they think it is.
And I speak a lot about this
because I don't want people
to take their life early.
And they need to know
you're just super sensitive.
Actually, everybody
goes through this stuff.
But the other thing that's
sensitive people and empaths
tend to do is they tend to
believe that other people have
more power than them.
They give their power outside.
I was exactly one
of those people.
And this is why I like to
tell sensitive people don't
give your power away.
They seem to think everybody
else is an authority over them.
They go to everyone
else for advice.
And when they get conflicting
advice, they get confused.
That was me.
And people who are
super sensitive,
we give our power
away to everybody.
And we are the ones that
are the most vulnerable
and the most likely--
and we're the most
likely to follow cult
leaders because we
give our power to them.
>> And waver and not be
able to make a decision.
>> But really you need to know
that no matter what spiritual
teacher you follow,
whoever it is,
it's great to get wisdom from
different spiritual teachers,
but just know that you have
the same power they have.
They do not have access to
something that you do not have.
Anybody that makes you feel that
the only way to get somewhere
is through them or
that they are the only
awakened one or the
only power, then that's
more like a cult leader.
>> People often miss level
extrasensory people as ADD
or overactive imaginations and
children tend to be medicated
for this reason.
Because it's too much for those
that aren't that way to handle.
>> Yes, I think our society
has let those children down.
I really do.
I know that when I was a
child, I used to see things.
I used to feel things.
I used to hear things.
But because we live in a
culture or paradigm where
it's not considered normal,
and you're considered weird.
And movies make you believe
that these things are scary.
So I started to fear it.
And so over the years,
it started to shut down.
And then after the NDE,
it came back again.
And I realized this is who I am.
But I also realized--
because I didn't feel like
I'm special or chosen.
I felt like I was
getting information
that this is who we all are.
And we live in a paradigm
that doesn't recognize it
and doesn't embrace it.
And it makes you feel like you
were the crazy one for being
that way.
But actually everybody
who denies it,
you're suppressing something
that's your birthright.
It's almost as if--
imagine if you were told
from the time you were born
or from the time you
could understand,
imagine you were told close
your eyes and keep your eyes
closed because you can't
trust everything you see.
And so imagine then navigating
the world without your eyes.
And so really suppressing
that intuition,
that the sixth sense
is the same thing.
Imagine if you had embraced
it and our paradigm actually
embraced it and taught
you how to use it,
and even gave it language,
the different nuances--
>> Yes, wouldn't be that?
>> We would be using it.
>> Validating it.
>> Validating it, using
it, and you know what?
You wouldn't have so
many fearful people.
You wouldn't have people
shooting each other up.
You wouldn't have
so many suicides.
>> Imagine if we lived
in a life like that,
where people around us knew
and felt things before we had
to say it.
Or they just felt that it
was natural to be loving in
that place of fear is what
it really boils down to.
>> Yes, and if we felt that.
And if we knew of our
connection and if we
knew that for me to love
myself and be joyful that's
what I'm bringing
to the whole, we
would actually be more
conscious about being
more joyful and loving and
bringing it out to the whole.
I mean, in other words,
like just to give you
another example to be
a little bit clearer
is that when you have
somebody who's sick--
like let's say you
have a sick person.
If the doctors and the nurses
are overworked and stressed,
that's the energy they're
bringing to the patient.
I would rather my
doctor and my nurses
to have taken care of
themselves and had time off
and have joy in their life.
And bring that joyful self
to me because their presence,
their energy is doing half
the healing to begin with.
>> It is true.
That is very true.
So if we live that
way much longer,
do you think that this
is what's contributing
to the massive
illness that people
are experiencing and getting
sick and disease and so forth?
>> I think it's contributing
to the massive fear
and the divisiveness, the
divisiveness that we're seeing
on this planet.
We are buying into
all this fear.
And the problem is
all the news media--
fear sells, and we buy it.
And I'm saying don't buy it.
>> We do.
>> But also our medical systems
are fear based because they are
focused on looking for illness
as opposed to focus on helping
to encourage wellness or
creating an environment that
fosters wellness.
So I totally agree we need
hospitals for emergencies,
emergency situations.
But I think for
chronic illnesses,
for cancers and things
like that, we need
a slightly different model.
>> A healing center
that involves--
>> A healing center, exactly.
>> --sixth sense.
>> Exactly, and that helps
people to get in touch with
their inner self and to also
communicate with their bodies,
to ask their bodies, what
is it that's causing this?
Because your body
communicates with you.
And it wants to
communicate with you.
That's why it creates
these illnesses.
It's its way of trying
to get your attention.
>> We'll also to trust the
guidance that you're receiving
that's in addition
to your senses.
It's the guidance that's coming
in constantly and to instead
of making that about a religion,
make that about your own divine
guidance.
We all have it.
>> Exactly, and it is about
trusting that guidance
and learning to get in
touch with that guidance
and communicate with it.
Because it is, again,
about taking your power
back that you have
that connection.
And I feel that is really
important because right now
what we do is we tend to
always go outside of us
to search for answers.
Now, the way I look at it is
what I get from the outside
is information not answers--
information.
And it's great to have
a lot of information
because it expands your library
from which to choose answers.
But all that information--
not all of it is right for you
at any particular given time.
Answers have to
come from within.
Information can
come from outside.
>> And that's OK, you just
have to be able to filter it.
It makes so much sense.
I have a new permission now
to be the sensory viewing.
And I hope that everyone
listening here does as well.
When you talk with
your audience-- which
you have such a great
connection with your audience,
and you've really developed a
close relationship with people
who have connected
with your work deeply,
what is the biggest question
that they have for you?
>> Gosh, there's quite a few.
So one of the biggest questions
is, how do I love myself?
And the response
that I usually give
people is learn to receive,
stop judging yourself.
And you have to love yourself
even through your failures.
Because loving
yourself doesn't mean
that everything's
going to be amazing
or to only love yourself
when you're succeeding.
You have to love
yourself even more when
you fail because you have to--
you really have to be
careful about that judgment
and not judge yourself
when you're failing.
You have to be your own best
friend through your failures.
That is really important.
And you have to get a
little bit at saying no
and not do things that
you don't want to do
just because you can't say no.
So being a six sensory being
is both a gift and a curse--
>> In today's world.
>> Yes, it's a gift and a burden
until the whole paradigm starts
to recognize it.
It's because for
somebody who is aware
that we are all
six sensory beings,
it's very frustrating
to see what's going on.
It's very frustrating.
You can't watch the news.
It's really hard to watch--
>> You can't understand why
people make their decisions
they make to hurt others.
>> To hurt others-- yes, you
just can't understand it.
It doesn't make any sense.
And so it's very,
very frustrating--
>> Or to hurt animals.
It keeps going.
>> All of it.
>> Tell me what
your biggest why is.
What is the reason why
you're doing everything
that you're doing, Anita?
>> It feels like
it's my calling.
It feels right.
I want to leave
the world a better
place for having been in it.
I'm not trying to--
interestingly, I am
not trying to change
people's outlooks or views.
That's not what
I'm trying to do.
It does happen as a result
of me sharing what I share.
But if somebody is a
debunker or a skeptic,
I'm not trying to
convince them otherwise.
If it works for
them, that's great.
But all I'm doing is I
want people to know--
those who are empathetic,
who are sensitive,
who have gone through the
things I've gone through--
I want them to know there's
nothing wrong with you.
Be kind to yourself,
don't judge yourself.
I want them to know that
what they have is a gift.
It's not a weakness.
It's a strength.
I also want them to know
that not only there's
nothing wrong with them,
but that the planet needs
more of them not less of them.
So don't hide-- you
need to come out.
If you're sensitive, if
you're empathetic, if only
you knew how much the planet
needs that now more than ever,
you need to come out.
You need to take
leadership roles--
don't hide, don't
see it as a weakness.
>> I absolutely
feel you on that.
I would love to
envision a world where
we are free to
feel our intuitive
guidance, our sixth
sense, our ability
to create and to heal and to
heal others as the new normal.
I would love to envision
that with you, Anita.
Thank you.
>> Thank you.
I would love that.
>> Absolutely,
thank you so much.
And thank you so much for
sharing this vision with us
all.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational programming,
you can go to
"Inspirations" on Gaia.com.
I'm Lisa Garr, and I
invite you to stay aware.